Chapter One an Empty Road the Wheel of Time turns, and ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the age that gave it birth comes again. In one age called the Third Age, by some, an age yet to come, an age long past, a wind rose in the mountains of mist. The wind was not the beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of the Wheel of Time, but it was a beginning. Borne below the ever cloud capped peaks that gave the mountains their name, the wind blew east, out across the Sand Hills, once the shore of a great ocean before the breaking of the world. Down it flailed into the two rivers, into the tangled forest called the Westwood, and beat it. Two men walking with a cart and horse down the rock strewn track called the Quarry Road. For all that, spring should have come a good month, since the wind carried an icy chill, as if it would rather bear snow. Gusts plastered Randall Thor's cloak to his back, whipped the earth colored wool around his legs, then streamed it out behind him. He wished his coat were heavier, or that he had worn an extra shirt half the time. When he tried to tug the cloak back around him, it caught on the quiver, swinging at his hip. Trying to hold the cloak one handed did not do much good anyway. He had his bow. In the other, an arrow knocked and ready to draw as a particularly strong blast tugged the cloak out of his hand. He glanced at his father over the back of a shaggy brown mare. He felt a little foolish about wanting to reassure himself that Tam was still there, but it was that kind of day. The wind howled when it rose, but aside from that, quiet lay heavy on the land. The soft creak of the axle sounded loud by comparison. No birds sang in the forest. No squirrels chittered from a branch. Not that he expected them, really, not this spring. Only trees that kept leaf or needle through the winter at any green about them. Snarls of last year's bramble spread brown webs over stone outcrops under the trees. Nettles numbered most among the few weeds. The rest were the sorts with sharp burrs or thorns or stinkweed, which left a rank smell on the unwary booth that crushed it. Scattered white patches of snow still dotted the ground, where tight clumps of trees kept deep shade. Where sunlight did reach, it held neither strength nor warmth. The pale sun sat above the trees to the east, but its light was crisply, dark, as if mixed with shadow. It was an awkward morning, made for unpleasant thoughts. Without thinking, he touched the knock of the arrow. It was ready to draw to his cheek in one smooth movement, the way Tam had taught him. Winter had been bad enough on the farms, worse than even the oldest folk remembered, but it must have been harsher still in the mountains if the number of wolves driven down into the two rivers was any guide. Wolves raided the sheep pens and chewed their way into barns to get the cattle and horses. Bears had been after the sheep, too, where a bear had not been seen in years. It was no longer safe to be out after dark. Men were the prey as often as sheep, and the sun did not always have to be down. Tam was taking steady strides on the other side of Bella, using his spears, a walking staff, ignoring the wind that made his brown cloak flap like a banner. Now and again he touched the mares flank lightly to remind her to keep moving. With his thick chest and broad face, he was a pillar of reality in that morning, like a stone in the middle of a drifting dream. His son roughened cheeks might be lined, and his hair have only a sprinkling of black among the gray, but there was a solidness to him, as though a flood could wash around him without uprooting his feet. He stumped down the road now impassively. Wolves and bears were all very well. His manner said things that any man who kept sheep must be aware of, but they had best not try to stop Tam. Although getting to Eman's Field with a guilty start, rand returned to watching his side of the road, Tam's matter of factness reminding him of his task. He was a head taller than his father, taller than anyone else in the district, and had little of Tam in him physically, except perhaps for a breath of shoulder. Gray eyes, and the reddish tinge to his hair came from his mother, so Tam said. She had been an outlander, and Rand remembered little of her aside from a smiling face, though he did put flowers on her grave every year at Beltine in the spring and at Sunday in the summer. Two small casks of Tam's apple brandy rested in the lurching cart, and eight larger barrels of apple cider, only slightly hard after winter, is curing.